
sparsity of matrix = number of empty cells/ total no of cells.
matrix factorization is one way to fill empty values.

Recommender system = seeks to predict the "rating" or "preference" a user would give to an item.

two types of recommendation system
1) content based = Content-based filtering methods are based on a description of the item and a profile of the user’s preferences.
2) collaborative = by knowing users preferences.

Similarity based algorithm types =
1) Item-Item based similarity
2) User-User based similarity.

if you have more user then use item-item instead of user-user recommendation system.
matrix factorization used for recommender based system problems.

matrix factorization/decomposition = Matrix factorization algorithms work by decomposing the user-item interaction matrix into the product of two lower dimensionality rectangular matrices.
Consider a given matrix A we can decompose it into product of matrix BCD
A = BCD

pca = eigen decomposition of co-variance matrix. pca can be performed on only on co-variance, square and symmetric matrix only.

Collaborative filtering (CF) is a technique used by recommender systems. Collaborative filtering has two senses, a narrow one and a more general one.
In the newer, narrower sense, collaborative filtering is a method of making automatic predictions (filtering) about the interests of a user by collecting preferences or taste information from many users (collaborating). The underlying assumption of the collaborative filtering approach is that if a person A has the same opinion as a person B on an issue, A is more likely to have B's opinion on a different issue than that of a randomly chosen person.

svd = singular value decomposition = MF technique related to PCA. svd can be performed on any rectangular matrix.

nnmf = non negative matrix factorization

cold start problem = 
1) new user comes = show top items by given metadata such as location.
2) new product launches = use product category,price

Eigen faces = 