how alb routes the traffic?
	Ingress controller can be provided with path, path type and backend which consist of service name and target port.
	
difference between statefulset and deployment in kubernetes? - later
python how to get arguments. - 
difference between aws ecs and aws eks - later
calculate cidr blocks - 
when to use replicaset instead of deployment - while developing and testing.
use cases for alb vs nlb
what is netmask =  IPv4 addresses represented in CIDR notation are called network masks
0.0.0.0/0 what is last bit called?
/28 /16 is allowed for vpc cidr blocks.
s3 bucket access controls.
-p ports host_port : container_port
linux check cpu and networking usage
terraform how to lock state file.
s3 policies vs iam policies
kubernetes how to update replicas

kubernetes how to decide which service type to use
what is null resource
ec2 connection refused
s3 bucket unable to create or copy objects.
how to recover ec2 instance when ssh key is lost
practise grep and awk and awk commands
what are the pipes in linux files
git revert
network modes in docker
git dif .. vs ...
python super method example
HPA VPA in kubernetes
authentication and authorisation in eks
how to give single pod s3 bucket access
Only give user read-only access to kubernetes cluster
how to access cluster through ssh
how to access nodeport outside of cluster
how ingress knows which service to select
how to evenly distribute pods between different nodes.
Kubernetes uses schedular configuration to decide on which node the pod should be deployed. Scheduling plugin called "NodeResourcesBalancedAllocation" will evenly distribute the pods.
permissions mapping in kubernetes rbac and iam roles.
How to access service from another namespace.
How to access pods, nodes inside eks cluster.
Types of ingress,
how to create an alarm for ec2 instance.
why did you use eks managed nodes?
how to create nlb using ingress
eks storage ebs volume plugin
create aws ec2 alarm.
schedule instance start stop by using aws event bus
