what why how when who 
tomcat

1) what is tomcat ?
-> Java Servlet Container. to run php you need to configure it. It is designed for java. 
 
   servlet/web container = component of a web server that interacts with Java servlets.A web container
   is responsible for managing the lifecycle of servlets, mapping a URL to a particular servlet and 
   ensuring that the URL requester has the correct access-rights.
   
2) Apache Tomcat = the apache(web server) manages the static data of the web pages,redirection etc 
   whereas tomcat(web container) manages the web application.
   
3) difference between web server and application server ?
-> Web server contains only web or servlet container. It can be used for servlet, jsp, struts, jsf 
   etc. It can't be used for EJB.It is a computer where the web content can be stored. In general web
   server can be used to host the web sites but there also used some other web servers also such as 
   FTP, email, storage, gaming etc.
   
   Application server contains Web and EJB containers. It can be used for servlet, jsp, struts, jsf, 
   ejb etc. It is a component based product that lies in the middle-tier of a server centric 
   architecture.It provides the middleware services for state maintenance and security, along with 
   persistence and data access. It is a type of server designed to install, operate and host 
   associated services and applications for the IT services, end users and organizations.
   
4) Java servlets = runs inside web container. 
   lifecycle = The lifecycle of a servlet is controlled by the container in which the servlet has 
   been deployed. When a request is mapped to a servlet, the container performs the following steps.
   1)If an instance of the servlet does not exist, the web container
         i)Loads the servlet class.
		 ii)Creates an instance of the servlet class.
         iii)Initializes the servlet instance by calling the init method.
   2)Invokes the service method, passing request and response objects. 
   3)Destroy method = the destroy() method is called only once at the end of the life cycle of a 
   servlet. This method gives your servlet a chance to close database connections, halt background 
   threads, write cookie lists or hit counts to disk, and perform other such cleanup activities.
   After the destroy() method is called, the servlet object is marked for garbage collection. 
   
5) Components of tomcat = 
   1)Catalina = Catalina provides Tomcat's actual implementation of the servlet specification; when 
   you start up your Tomcat server, you're actually starting Catalina.
   Catalina is the Java Engine (JRE / JVM) that's built into Tomcat and provides an environment in 
   which Servlets can be run.
   
   2)Coyote = Coyote is the HTTP connector that's built into Tomcat and provides Tomcat with an 
              interface that browsers can connect to.
   
   3)Jasper = Jasper is the Java Server pages handler in Tomcat; internally, it deals with any 
              compiling that's neccessary, and converts JSPs into Servlets for Catalina to handle.
   