amazon data lifecycle management = automated way to backup data stored on ebs volumes. You can define backup and retention schedule for ebs snapshots by creating lifecycle policies based on tags.

aws system manager session manager = you can access instance through browser without ssh keys to do administrative and general tasks.

aws system manager state manager = configuration management service that automates onpremise and aws ec2 instances in defined state.

amazon cognito = cognito helps with user signup, signin and access control to your web and mobile application quickly. cognito supports both social identity providers such as fb, google amazon and enterprise identity providers like saml 2.0. 

amazon rekognition = can store information about detected faces in server-side containers known as collections. You can use the facial information that's stored in a collection to search for known faces in images, stored videos, and streaming videos. Amazon Rekognition supports the IndexFaces operation. You can use this operation to detect faces in an image and persist information about facial features that are detected into a collection. 

AWS Storage Gateway = offers file-based, volume-based, and tape-based storage solutions. With a tape gateway, you can cost-effectively and durably archive backup data in GLACIER or DEEP_ARCHIVE. you can't directly fetch the media files from your tape gateway in real-time since this is backed up using Glacier. Although the on-premises data center is using a tape gateway, you can still set up a solution to use a file gateway in order to properly process the videos using Amazon Rekognition. Keep in mind that the tape gateway in AWS Storage Gateway service is primarily used as an archive solution.

ec2 don't have built-in instance recovery feature. You have to use a combination of CloudWatch and a Lambda function to automatically recover the EC2 instance from failure. Terminated instances cannot be recovered. A recovered instance is identical to the original instance, including the instance ID, private IP addresses, Elastic IP addresses, and all instance metadata. If the impaired instance is in a placement group, the recovered instance runs in the placement group. 

Your CodeCommit repository and Amazon SNS topic must be on the same region for the triggers to work. 
you cannot set an S3 bucket or object as a target for a CloudWatch Events rule.

aws system manager automation = It helps common maintainance and deployment tasks. It could be useful in below scenarios
	1. build automations to configure and manage instances and aws resources.
	2. create custom runbook or use predefined runbook maintained by aws.
	3. receive notifications using eventbridge and monitor progress in aws system manager console.
automation documents(runbook)

you can configure aws config to stream configuration changes to sns. you can do remediation using aws config by using predefined rules or create your own rules by using aws system manager automation documents(runbook)

client(browser) ->  cloudfront ->  ec2/alb/custom domain
To encrypt connection between client and cloudfront
	third party or amazon acm certificates are accepted.
To encrypt connection between cloudfront and origin
	elb				third party or acm
	ec2/lambda		third party
	custom domain	third party or acm
	
a patch group must be defined with the tag key: Patch Group.

There are two types of events : Management events(such as login) and Data events.
cloudtrail trail disable recording of data events such as getObject, putObject or DeleteObject as they are high volume. you must explicitly add resource types and supported resources in trail. 