AWS lesser known services

amazon artifact = No cost, self-service portal for on-demand access to AWS security and  compliance reports from third-party auditors.

aws certificate manager = create security(SSL/TLS) certificate, deploy it on ACM-integrated AWS resources, such as Elastic Load Balancers, Amazon CloudFront distributions, and APIs on API Gateway, manage, renew and retire them to provide secure connection between user and aws infrastructure.

aws elastic transcode(deprecated) = converts media files to different formats
aws Elemental MediaConvert = same as aws elastic transcode.

aws sts (security token service) = provides temporary limited priviledge credentials for user or federated users.

CloudWatch metric math = Metric math enables you to query multiple CloudWatch metrics and use math expressions to create new time series based on these metrics. You can visualize the resulting time series on the CloudWatch console and add them to dashboards.

amazon quicksight = a fully managed service that lets you easily create and publish interactive dashboards. 

Amazon Forecast = a fully managed service that uses machine learning to deliver highly accurate forecasts of any time-series data

aws glue = AWS Glue is a fully managed ETL (extract, transform, and load) service that makes it simple and cost-effective to categorize your data, clean it, enrich it, and move it reliably between various data stores and data streams. 

amazon neptune = fully managed graph database service 

aws x-ray = You can use AWS X-Ray to trace and analyze user requests as they travel through your Amazon API Gateway APIs to the underlying services. X-Ray gives you an end-to-end view of an entire request, so you can analyze latencies in your APIs and their backend services. 

AWS cloudfront Reports :
	Use Popular Objects Report to determine what objects are frequently being accessed, and get statistics on those objects.
	Use Usage Reports to know the number of HTTP and HTTPS requests that CloudFront responds to from edge locations in selected regions.
	Use Viewers Reports to determine the locations of the viewers that access your content most frequently. also for different types of browser that users frequently used. 
	Use Top Referrers Reports to  display a list of the 25 website domains that originated the most HTTP and HTTPS requests for objects that CloudFront is distributing for a specified distribution.
	Use Cache statistics Report to get statistics on viewer requests grouped by HTTP status code
	
AWS IAM Reports :
	Credentials Report = You can generate and download a credential report that lists all users in your account and the status of their various credentials, including passwords, access keys, and MFA devices. 
	
AWS SAM = The AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) is an open-source framework for building serverless applications.

Oracle RAC(Real Application Cluster) = With RAC, we can apply rolling patches to eliminate the downtime while patching. aws didn't support oracle RAC config.

S3 transfer acceleration = Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your client and an S3 bucket. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront’s globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.

aws acl = It defines which AWS accounts or groups are granted access and the type of access. When a request is received against a resource, Amazon S3 checks the corresponding ACL to verify that the requester has the necessary access permissions.

aws macie = Amazon Macie is a fully managed data security and data privacy service that uses machine learning and pattern matching to discover and protect your sensitive data in AWS. Macie automatically provides an inventory of Amazon S3 buckets including a list of unencrypted buckets, publicly accessible buckets, and buckets shared with AWS accounts outside those you have defined in AWS Organizations. Then, Macie applies machine learning and pattern matching techniques to the buckets you select to identify and alert you to sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information (PII). This can help you meet regulations, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and General Data Privacy Regulation (GDPR). 

aws cost explorer (beginner friendly)= AWS Cost Explorer lets you explore your AWS costs and usage at both a high level and at a detailed level of analysis, and empowering you to dive deeper using a number of filtering dimensions (e.g., AWS Service, Region, Linked Account, etc.).You can get started quickly by exploring your data (in chart and tabular format) at a high level (for example, total costs and usage across all accounts). From there, you can create highly specific requests (for example, m2.2xlarge costs within account Y with the “project: secretProject” tag applied).
Cost Explorer can display up to 12 months of historical data (if you have that much), the current month, and the forecasted costs for the next three months. for following scenario its best option : The SysOps Administrator needs to view the costs for the current month as well as the last three months. She also needs to be able to forecast expenses for the current billing period.

AWS Cost & Usage Report (very detailed)= The AWS Cost & Usage Report is your one-stop shop for accessing the most detailed information available about your AWS costs and usage. The AWS Cost & Usage Report can be generated at an hourly and/or daily level of granularity.  It includes additional metadata about AWS services, pricing, and reservations (for example, Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances). 

aws budget = the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when your costs or usage exceed, or are forecasted to exceed, your budgeted amount. 

AWS Firewall Manager = used to simplify your AWS WAF administration and maintenance tasks across multiple accounts and resources. 

Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) = a network interface for Amazon EC2 instances that enables customers to run applications requiring high levels of inter-node communications at scale on AWS. 

AWS Directory Service = AWS Directory Service provides multiple ways to use Microsoft Active Directory (AD) with other AWS services.

AWS SSO = manages access to all your AWS Organizations accounts, AWS SSO-integrated applications, and other business applications that support the Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 standard.
AWS SSO automatically provides you with a store by default, which you can use to manage your users and groups within AWS SSO. If you choose to store them in AWS SSO, create your users and groups and assign their level of access to your AWS accounts and applications. Alternatively, you can choose to Connect to Your External Identity Provider using Azure Active Directory or connect to your Microsoft AD Directory using AWS Directory Service.

A permission set is a collection of administrator-defined policies that AWS SSO uses to determine a user's effective permissions to access a given AWS account. Permission sets can contain either AWS managed policies or custom policies that are stored in AWS SSO.
you can only set up permission sets in AWS SSO and not in AWS Organizations. 

EC2Rescue = an easy-to-use tool that is primarily used to diagnose and troubleshoot possible problems in your Amazon EC2 instances. 

cloudformation designer = graphic tool for creating viewing and modifying cloudformation template.

The cfn-get-metadata helper script is only a wrapper script that retrieves either all metadata that is defined for a resource or path to a specific key or a subtree of the resource metadata, but does not interpret the resource metadata, install packages, create files, and start services.

The cfn-init helper script interprets the metadata that contains the sources, packages, files, and services. You run the script on the EC2 instance when it is launched. The script is installed by default on Amazon Linux and Windows AMIs.

The cfn-signal helper script is a wrapper thats signals an AWS CloudFormation WaitCondition for synchronizing other resources in the stack when the application is ready.

The cfn-hup helper script is a daemon that checks for updates to metadata and executes custom hooks when changes are detected. 

Finally, there is no helper script named cfn-deploy.

