AWS lesser known services

amazon artifact = No cost, self-service portal for on-demand access to AWS security and  compliance reports from third-party auditors who have tested and verified our compliance with a variety of global, regional, and industry specific security standards and regulations.

aws certificate manager = With AWS Certificate Manager, you can quickly request a certificate, deploy it on ACM-integrated AWS resources, such as Elastic Load Balancers, Amazon CloudFront distributions, and APIs on API Gateway, and let AWS Certificate Manager handle certificate renewals.

aws elastic transcode(deprecated) = converts media files to different formats
aws Elemental MediaConvert = same as aws elastic transcode.

aws sts (security token service) = provides temporary limited priviledge credentials for user or federated users.

Autonomous System Number (ASN) = An Autonomous System (AS) is a group of one or more IP prefixes (lists of IP addresses accessible on a network) run by one or more network operators that maintain a single, clearly-defined routing policy. Network operators need Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs) to control routing within their networks and to exchange routing information with other Internet Service Providers (ISPs).

CloudWatch metric math = Amazon CloudWatch can create cross-account cross-region dashboards. Use CloudWatch metric math to aggregate and transform metrics from multiple accounts and Regions. Metric math enables you to query multiple CloudWatch metrics and use math expressions to create new time series based on these metrics. You can visualize the resulting time series on the CloudWatch console and add them to dashboards.

amazon quicksight = a fully managed service that lets you easily create and publish interactive dashboards. 

AWS Cost and Usage report =  It just lists the AWS usage for each service category used by an account and its IAM users in hourly or daily line items, as well as any tags that you have activated for cost allocation purposes.

Amazon Forecast = a fully managed service that uses machine learning to deliver highly accurate forecasts of any time-series data

AWS Cost Explorer = Cost Explorer can display up to 12 months of historical data (if you have that much), the current month, and the forecasted costs for the next three months. for following scenario its best option : The SysOps Administrator needs to view the costs for the current month as well as the last three months. She also needs to be able to forecast expenses for the current billing period.

aws budget = the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when your costs or usage exceed, or are forecasted to exceed, your budgeted amount. 

aws glue = AWS Glue is a fully managed ETL (extract, transform, and load) service that makes it simple and cost-effective to categorize your data, clean it, enrich it, and move it reliably between various data stores and data streams. 

amazon swf = The Amazon Simple Workflow Service (Amazon SWF) makes it easy to build applications that coordinate work across distributed components.

amazon neptune = Amazon Neptune is a fast, reliable, fully managed graph database service that makes it easy to build and run applications that work with highly connected datasets. 

aws x-ray = You can use AWS X-Ray to trace and analyze user requests as they travel through your Amazon API Gateway APIs to the underlying services. X-Ray gives you an end-to-end view of an entire request, so you can analyze latencies in your APIs and their backend services. 

AWS cloudfront Reports :
	Use Popular Objects Report to determine what objects are frequently being accessed, and get statistics on those objects.
	Use Usage Reports to know the number of HTTP and HTTPS requests that CloudFront responds to from edge locations in selected regions.
	Use Viewers Reports to determine the locations of the viewers that access your content most frequently. also for different types of browser that users frequently used. 
	Use Top Referrers Reports to  display a list of the 25 website domains that originated the most HTTP and HTTPS requests for objects that CloudFront is distributing for a specified distribution.
	Use Cache statistics Report to get statistics on viewer requests grouped by HTTP status code
	
AWS IAM Reports :
	Credentials Report = You can generate and download a credential report that lists all users in your account and the status of their various credentials, including passwords, access keys, and MFA devices. 
	
AWS SAM = The AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) is an open-source framework for building serverless applications.

Oracle RAC(Real Application Cluster) = With RAC, we can apply rolling patches to eliminate the downtime while patching. aws didn't support oracle RAC config.

S3 transfer acceleration = Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your client and an S3 bucket. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront’s globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.

aws acl = It defines which AWS accounts or groups are granted access and the type of access. When a request is received against a resource, Amazon S3 checks the corresponding ACL to verify that the requester has the necessary access permissions.