High Availability

Simple Queue Service(SQS) = access to message queues that store messages waiting to be processed. Amazon SQS queues retain messages for a set period of time. The default setting is four days; however, you can configure a queue to retain messages for up to 14 days.

Visibility timeout is the period of time that a message is invisible to the rest of your application after an application component gets it from the queue. During the visibility timeout, the component that received the message usually processes it and then deletes it from the queue. default timeout period is 30 seconds.

Dead Letter Queue (DLQ) is an Amazon SQS queue that you configure to receive messages from other Amazon SQS queues, referred to as “source queues.” Typically, you set up a DLQ to receive messages after a maximum number of processing attempts has been reached.

Simple Notification Service (SNS) = manages the delivery or sending of messages to subscribing endpoints or clients. In Amazon SNS, there are two types of clients—publishers and subscribers, which are also referred to as producers and consumers. Publishers communicate asynchronously with subscribers by producing and sending a message to a topic, which is a logical access point and communication channel. Subscribers (for example web servers, email addresses, Amazon SQS queues, and AWS Lambda functions) consume or receive the message or notification over one of the supported protocols (such as Amazon SQS, HTTP/S, email, Short Message Service [SMS], or AWS Lambda) when they are subscribed to the topic.

To get started with Amazon SNS, first create your topic, select your protocol(s), subscribe to the topic, and then publish to your topic.

Recovery time objective (RTO) = This represents the time it takes after a disruption to restore a business process to its service level.

Recovery point objective (RPO) = This is the acceptable amount of data loss measured in time. For example, if a disaster occurs at 12:00 PM (noon) and the RPO is one hour, the system should recover all data that was in the system before 11:00 AM.

Disaster Recovery = there are 4 DR plans that you can use.
	backup and restore = this plan provides slowest system restoration. Here you take snapshot of data and store in durable s3 storage. This is cheapest option.
	
	pilot light = It is quicker than backup and restore. In this we keep running most critical core elements of system is aws. when DR scenario happens we rapidly provision full scale prod env. This is example of active/passive failover configuration. This is more costly than backup and restore.
	
	warm-standby = It is quicker than pilot light. Here we keep scaled down version of fully functional env running in aws. This also comes under active/passive failover config. This is more costly than pilot light. Here in DR scenario we add auto scaling or resize the instances.
	
	multi site = This is fastest as well as costliest method of active/active failover config. Here we use one to one copy of our infrastructure in other region or AZ.

