AWS Lambda

AWS Lambda = AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service.
AWS Lambda functions are invoked by the following:
	Push event model = Some event sources can publish events to AWS Lambda and directly invoke your AWS Lambda function. The push model applies to Amazon S3, Amazon SNS, Amazon Cognito, Amazon Echo, and user applications, where each event triggers the AWS Lambda function.
	Pull event model = Some event sources publish events, but AWS Lambda must poll the event source and invoke your AWS Lambda function when events occur. This model applies when AWS Lambda is used with streaming event sources such as Amazon Kinesis and Amazon DynamoDB Streams. For example, AWS Lambda polls your Amazon Kinesis stream, or Amazon DynamoDB Stream, and it invokes your AWS Lambda function when it detects new records on the stream.
	Direct invocation model = This invocation type causes AWS Lambda to execute the function synchronously and returns the response immediately to the calling application. This invocation type is available for custom applications.
	
One of the recommendations for writing code for AWS Lambda is to make sure that the code is stateless (that is, it does not make reference to any underlying infrastructure).
AWS lambda can run continously only for 15 minutes.

If you're using the AWS Lambda compute platform, you must choose one of the following deployment configuration types to specify how traffic is shifted from the original AWS Lambda function version to the new AWS Lambda function version:
	Canary: Traffic is shifted in two increments. You can choose from predefined canary options that specify the percentage of traffic shifted to your updated Lambda function version in the first increment and the interval, in minutes, before the remaining traffic is shifted in the second increment.
	Linear: Traffic is shifted in equal increments with an equal number of minutes between each increment. You can choose from predefined linear options that specify the percentage of traffic shifted in each increment and the number of minutes between each increment.
	All-at-once: All traffic is shifted from the original Lambda function to the updated Lambda function version at once.

Amazon CloudWatch provides metrics for AWS Lambda. These metrics include,
but are not limited to, the following:
	Invocation count
	Invocation duration
	Number of requests
	Latency per request
	Duration of code execution
	
The AWS Lambda function is executed once it is invoked. If the execution fails, two more attempts are made. You can, as an option, configure AWS Lambda to forward a failed payload to a Dead Letter Queue (DLQ). This DLQ can take the form of an Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) topic or an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue.