Storage

redundancy/durability = multiple copies of data so data will not be lost.
high availability = data will be always available.

block storage vs Object storage = The key difference between block and object storage systems is the fundamental unit of storage. For block storage, each file (object) being saved to the drive is broken down into “blocks” of a specific size. If you were using 512 byte blocks and had a 10 KB file, you would create 20 blocks worth of drive space. Each block is saved and tracked independently of the others. For object storage, each file is saved as a single object regardless of size. A 10 KB file is saved as a single 10 KB object, and a 30 MB file is saved as a single 30 MB object.
In case of update block storage will only update affected block (default 512 bytes) and in case of object storage prev object will be discarded and complete file will be again uploaded.

object storage has two types 
	hot(S3) = available immediately to download on multiple parallel locations.
	cold(glaciar) = need to wait minimum 3-4 hours before being available. immediate (1-5 minutes) will be costly.
all storages(s3, glacier) automatically replicated in multiple availability zones to be fail safe. block storage speed can still be affected by use of magnetic(hard cap 100 IOPS) or SSD (min 3000 IOPS). S3 standard is stored minimum three Availability Zones.
In block storage you have to pre-provision the space required by you and in object storage there is no concept of provisioning. your billing starts when you upload the object and stops when you deletes the object.

Amazon EMR(elastic Map Reduce) used to process vast amounts of data. It utilizes a hosted Hadoop framework running on  EC2 and S3. With EMR, you can provision one, hundreds, or thousands of compute instances to process data at any scale.
You can easily increase or decrease the number of instances manually or with Auto Scaling. This means that EMR can launch EC2 instances that have full admin right to user.

EFS (Elastic File System) = fully managed file storage service. It is used to be accessible by thousands of ec2 instance at same time with consistent performance. efs didn't support windows os. Amazon EFS is a regional service storing data within and across multiple Availability Zones (AZs) for high availability and durability. EFS is used when you required parallel access storage.

AWS EBS = you can mount multiple ebs volumes on single instance or you can attach single volume to multiple instances using ebs multi-attach(max 16). ebs volumes are created in an AZ can only be attached to instance in same AZ. you can create snapshot and restore snapshot any wehere in the region to attach to instance outside current AZ. you can use aws managed AWS Backup for ebs volumes. you cannot use hdd (sc1, st1) as boot volume. use raid 0 to maximize utilization of instance resources. Although recommended is raid 1 as it provides fault tolerance. Raid 5 and 6 are not at all recommended.  
The maximum ratio of provisioned IOPS to requested volume size (in GiB) is 50:1.
For example, a 100 GiB volume can be provisioned with up to 5,000 IOPS. On a supported instance type, any volume 1,280 GiB in size or greater allows provisioning up to the 64,000 IOPS maximum (50 × 1,280 GiB = 64,000).
EBS volume can be categorized into two main categories. SSD (gp2,io1) or HDD (st1,sc1) . io1 provides both high throughput and high io. whereas gp2 provides balanced performance with most cost effective. st1 provides high throughput. while sc1 is cheapest one with moderate throughput and used for infrequent workloads.
The gp2 SSD volumes used for boot volume, virtual machine, interactive applications and dev environments. It provides 3 IOPS per GiB baseline in range of min 100 to max 10,000 IOPS. i.e. it you have 500 GiB capacity then you get 1500 IOPS. Its latency is single digit milisecond.
The io1 mission critical SSD volumes used for large databases both SQL and Non-SQL. It can provide IOPS upto 80,000 and throughput upto 500 MB/s. Its latency is single digit milisecond. If you want latency less than 1 ms or IOPS greter than 80,000 then use instance store backed storage.
The st1 throughput optimized volume used for streaming workload such as big data, data warehouses and analog processing. throughput = 500 MB/S 
The sc1 is used when we want lowest storage cost. some examples are Transcoding , Encoding and rendering. throughput = 250 MB/S

EBS optimized vs Non-optimized = EBS non-optimized uses shared network pipe. Sharing of network can cause increased io latency to EBS volumes. EBS optimized instances have dedicated bandwidth. provides increased performance in IO. They also provided dedicated throughput between 400 to 14000 MB/S. EBS optimized instances provides 99% provisioned IOPS performance 99.99% time. 
So in Conclusion to get best performance you should use EBS optimized provisioned iops instance.

AWS EBS snapshots = EBS volumes are only replicated within an AZ thereby not providing much durability in case of that AZ failure. Snapshots are point in time.Snapshots create permanant images of the volume and store them at the regional level (across multiple Availability Zones) in Amazon S3. snapshots only store the sectors that have changed (the delta) from the previous snapshot, allowing the total volume of data stored (and thus billed) to be dramatically reduced. but If more than 10 GB of data has changed from last snapshot then instead of parsing changes system will save 100% new snapshot.

Amazon data lifecycle manager for EBS snapshot = provides simple automated way to backup data using EBS snapshots created and deleted at custom schedule.

when restoring EBS from snapshot The volume is created immediately, but the data is loaded lazily. This means that the volume can be accessed upon creation, and if the data being requested has not yet been restored, it will be restored upon first request.

Securing Amazon EBS = two ways 1. client  2. volume
	client = user is responsible for this.
	volume = aws provides both data in rest and trasit encryption including boot volume.
	
instance storage(ephemeral storage) = directly attached to ec2 instance(physically). ideal for temporary storage of information that changes frequently. you cannot stop only terminate instance store backed ec2 instance. Also it takes more boot time than EBS backed storage as it has load all data first to instance store. But in case of EBS data is being lazily loaded and only boot portion required at starting. 

Amazon EFS vs. Amazon EBS
Amazon EFS is designed to provide regional(mulit-AZ), durable, multi-user file systems. Amazon EBS is designed for single Amazon EC2 volumes.Because of its design, Amazon EBS is significantly cheaper when looking at per-GB cost of storage. If there is no need for multiple instances to attach to the storage, Amazon EBS will likely be a good place to start your operation.
Once you have multiple users, however, Amazon EFS will often be a much less expensive option with regional redundancy and durability. EFS and EBS both provide encryption at rest and in transit.

amazon cloudfront = for distribution of frequently accessed static content that benefits from edge delivery, like popular website images, videos, media files, or software downloads.

CloudFront’s geo-restriction feature = This feature lets you specify a list of countries in which your users can access your content. Alternatively, you can specify the countries in which your users cannot access your content.

AWS Storage Gateway = AWS Storage Gateway allows existing on-premises storage solutions to be extended into AWS. By installing a virtual appliance in the local datacenter, storage can be duplicated or extended into the AWS Region.

AWS Storage Gateway Options = 
1. file interface = The first option is called the file interface. This enables you to use Amazon S3 with your on-premises workflows by accessing the Amazon S3 bucket through a Network File System (NFS) mount point. This allows customers to migrate their files into Amazon S3 through object-based workloads while maintaining their on-premises investments.
2. volume interface = The second option is the volume interface. In this case, you are presented with an iSCSI block storage endpoint. Data is accessed on the local volumes, which is then stored on AWS in the form of Amazon EBS snapshots. 
	There are two configuration modes using the volume interface. The cached mode is designed to extend your local storage. All content is saved in AWS, and only the frequently accessed data is cached locally. This is an excellent operational solution for on-premises storage solutions that are exceeding their local capacity limits. The other mode is the stored mode, which is a one-to-one backup of all local content on AWS. This is a primary solution when durable and inexpensive off-site backups are needed.  
3. tape interface = In this configuration, you connect to your existing backup application using an iSCSI Virtual Tape Library (VTL). These virtual tapes are then asynchronously stored in Amazon S3 or Amazon Glacier if less expensive, longer-term storage is needed.
	
AWS Snowball Edge Compute Optimized = used for a edge machine learning, full motion video analysis, analytics and local computing stuff.It has 42 TB hdd storage and 8 TB NVMe storage.
AWS Snowball Edge Storage Optimized = used for large scale data migration. One device has 80 TB hdd data storage capacity.
aws snowmobile = If your volume is more than 10 PB then use aws snowmobile.

Different instance types will support different storage options. The three major types of storage for Amazon EC2 are instance storage, Amazon EBS, and Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS).
