Amazon CloudWatch = monitors the health and status of AWS resources in real time.
Amazon CloudWatch monitors your Amazon Web Services (AWS) resources and the applications you run on AWS in real time. You can use CloudWatch to collect and track metrics, which are variables you can measure for your resources and applications.
Amazon CloudWatch Logs = collects and monitors log files, can set alarms, and automatically reacts to changes in AWS resources. You can use Amazon CloudWatch Logs to monitor, store, and access your log files from Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances, AWS CloudTrail, Route 53, and other sources.
Amazon CloudWatch Alarms = monitor a single metric and perform one or more actions based on customer-defined criteria. 
Amazon CloudWatch Events = delivers a near real-time stream of system events that describe changes in AWS resources. Amazon CloudWatch Events delivers a near real-time stream of system events that describe changes in Amazon Web Services (AWS) resources. An event indicates a change in your AWS environment. AWS resources can generate events when their state changes. For example, Amazon EC2 generates an event when the state of an EC2 instance changes from pending to running, and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling generates events when it launches or terminates instances. AWS CloudTrail publishes events when you make API calls.

AWS CloudTrail = monitors calls made to the Amazon CloudWatch Events Application Programming Interface (API) for an account.

AWS Config = AWS Config provides a detailed view of the configuration of AWS resources in an AWS account, including how the resources are related to one another.

Metrics = At the core of Amazon CloudWatch are metrics , which are time-ordered sets of data points that contain information about the performance of resources.

Amazon CloudWatch collectd plugin = publishing extension for collectd , an open-source statistic gathering daemon. All configured collectd metrics are automatically published to Amazon CloudWatch. 

Data points are not returned from Amazon CloudWatch in chronological order.

Namespaces = A namespace is a container for a collection of Amazon CloudWatch metrics. There are no default namespaces. When creating a custom metric, a namespace is required.

Dimensions = A dimension is a name/value pair that uniquely identifi es a metric and further clarifies the metric data stored. A metric can have up to 10 dimensions. Think of dimensions as categories or metadata for those characteristics.

If unit is not provided for metrics then amazon cloudwatch uses None as unit. For metrics that are continuously emitted, Amazon CloudWatch sends a notification until three failures are found. When monitoring, using an average value can hide events that are drastically different than normal ones. When monitoring a maximum value, however, a single, random spike can skew the results. To avoid this, monitor the 95th percentile of CPU utilization to check for instances with an unusually heavy load.

Inside Amazon EC2, there are two types of status checks: a system status check and an instance status check.

An Amazon CloudWatch Alarm is always in one of three states: OK , ALARM , or INSUFFICIENT_DATA .
■ When the monitored metric is within the range that has been defined as acceptable, it is in the OK state.
■ When a metric breaches a user-defined threshold, it transitions to the ALARM state.
■ If the data needed to make a decision is missing or incomplete, it is in the INSUFFICIENT_DATA state.

aws cloudwatch is push service i.e. cloudwatch didn't pull changes but changes and metrics are pushed to it by other services. Also cloudwatch cannot monitor multiple metrics for a single alarm to do this we need to aggregate all the metrics and send to cloudwatch. cloudwatch preserve history for two weeks. Also you cannot change the name of existing alarm. The number of evaluation period for an alarm multiplied by length of each evaluation period cannot exceed one day.

aws rotue 53 and RDS service provides detailed monitering(1 min interval) without any additional charges.
min time period for basic cloudwatch logs monitoring is 5 mins and for detailed min time possible is 1 min.
Amazon CloudWatch will receive and aggregate statistical data based on the namespace and metric.
namespace is must have parameter for sending data to cloudwatch.

High Availability

Simple Queue Service(SQS) = access to message queues that store messages waiting to be processed. Amazon SQS queues retain messages for a set period of time. The default setting is four days; however, you can configure a queue to retain messages for up to 14 days.

Visibility timeout is the period of time that a message is invisible to the rest of your application after an application component gets it from the queue. During the visibility timeout, the component that received the message usually processes it and then deletes it from the queue.

Dead Letter Queue (DLQ) is an Amazon SQS queue that you configure to receive messages from other Amazon SQS queues, referred to as “source queues.” Typically, you set up a DLQ to receive messages after a maximum number of processing attempts has been reached.

Simple Notification Service (SNS) = manages the delivery or sending of messages to subscribing endpoints or clients. In Amazon SNS, there are two types of clients—publishers and subscribers, which are also referred to as producers and consumers. Publishers communicate asynchronously with subscribers by producing and sending a message to a topic, which is a logical access point and communication channel. Subscribers (for example web servers, email addresses, Amazon SQS queues, and AWS Lambda functions) consume or receive the message or notification over one of the supported protocols (such as Amazon SQS, HTTP/S, email, Short Message Service [SMS], or AWS Lambda) when they are subscribed to the topic.

To get started with Amazon SNS, fi rst create your topic, select your protocol(s), subscribe to the topic, and then publish to your topic.

Recovery time objective (RTO) = This represents the time it takes after a disruption to restore a business process to its service level.

Recovery point objective (RPO) = This is the acceptable amount of data loss measured in time. For example, if a disaster occurs at 12:00 PM (noon) and the RPO is one hour, the system should recover all data that was in the system before 11:00 AM.

Warm-Standby Method = a scaled-down version of a fully-functional environment is always running in the cloud.

pilot light method = a minimal version of an environment is always running in AWS.

Multi-Site Solution Method = A multi-site solution runs in AWS, as well as on your existing on-site infrastructure, in an active-active configuration.

You are managing a multi-region application deployed on AWS. You currently use your own DNS. What types of failover does Amazon Route 53 support? (choose three)
	-> A. Active-active failover
	   B. Active-active-passive failover
	   C. Active-passive failover
You can set up a variety of failover confi gurations using Amazon Route 53 alias, weighted, latency, geolocation routing, and failover resource record sets. You can choose Activeactive failover, Active-passive failover, Active-active-passive, and other mixed confi gurations.	   

Amazon Route 53 health checks monitor can monitor one of the following: the health of a specifi ed resource, such as a web server; the status of an Amazon CloudWatch Alarm; and the status of other health checks.

How do you make your hardware VPN redundant? (both options are right but B is best.)
	-> A. Deploy your own software VPN solution on AWS, ensuring that the software-based VPN is deployed to two separate Availability Zones. Take down the hardware VPN.
		B. Deploy two customer gateways. Configure your customer gateways to take advantage of the two tunnels provided by the hardware VPN.
		
You are part of the disaster recovery team, and you are working to create a DR policy. What is the bare minimum type of disaster recovery that you can perform with AWS?
	-> Backup-restore method using S3 as backup destination.
	
You have an application with a recovery point objective of zero and a recovery time objective of 20 minutes. What type of disaster recovery method should you use?
	-> A warm-standby solution extends the pilot light elements and preparation. It further decreases the recovery time because some services are always running. By identifying your business-critical systems, you can fully duplicate these systems on AWS and have them always on.

