aws misc
Generally aws services are regional scope.
Highesh scope is global. Regional is middle scope and lowest is AZ (Availability Zone) scope.
aws global scope services = cloudfront, Route 53, IAM
aws AZ scope services = only subnet(VPC is regional), ec2 instance, ebs volume 
All other services are regional in scope.
some service scope depends upon where they used for e.g. WAF when put in front of cdn will be of global scope and when placed in front of load balancer its regional. 

Elastic Load Balancer (elb) = If you need flexible application management or HTTP requests we recommend that you use an Application Load Balancer. Only Application Load Balancers support WebSockets, path-based routing, host-based routing and support for containerized applications. If extreme performance and static IP or For network/transport protocols (layer4 – TCP, UDP) load balancing, we recommend that you use a Network Load Balancer. If you have an existing application that was built within the EC2-Classic network, then you should use a Classic Load Balancer.

cloudformation template = json/yaml text file. you can save file in .json, .yaml, .template or .txt format. 
template can have multiple section but only Resources section is mandatory. some of important sections as below.
	Format Version, Description, Metadata sections = are used to provide more information about template.
	Parameters = Values to pass to your template at runtime (when you create or update a stack). You can refer to parameters from the Resources and Outputs sections of the template.
	Mappings(key=values pair) = useful when you want to create resources in other region.
	conditions = decide whether certain resources are created or whether certain resource properties are assigned a value during stack creation or update. For example, you could conditionally create a resource that depends on whether the stack is for a production or test environment.
	Resources(required) = Specifies the stack resources and their properties, such as an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud instance or an Amazon Simple Storage Service bucket.
	Outputs = Describes the values that are returned whenever you view your stack's properties.
aws cloudformation uses Change Set to preview how the proposed changes to a stack might impact your running resources in AWS. It uses stack Policy to prevent stack resources from being unintentionally updated or deleted during a stack update.

NAT gateway = NAT gateways in each Availability Zone are implemented with redundancy. Create a NAT gateway in each Availability Zone to ensure zone-independent architecture.

VPC endpoint = A VPC endpoint enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by AWS PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resources in the service. Traffic between your VPC and the other service does not leave the Amazon network.
Endpoints are virtual devices. They are horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC components. They allow communication between instances in your VPC and services without imposing availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic.

aws privatelink = provides private connectivity between different/same account VPCs, AWS services, and on-premises applications. VPC endpoints support private connectivity over AWS Direct Connect, so that applications in your premises will be able to connect to these services via the Amazon private network.

Step functions = AWS Step Functions is a serverless function orchestrator that makes it easy to sequence AWS Lambda functions and multiple AWS services into business-critical applications. Through its visual interface, you can create and run a series of checkpointed and event-driven workflows that maintain the application state. The output of one step acts as an input to the next. Each step in your application executes in order, as defined by your business logic.