AWS misc

placement group = A placement group is a logical grouping of instances within a single Availability Zone. Using placement groups enables applications to participate in a low-latency, 10 Gigabits per second (Gbps) network. Placement groups are recommended for applications that benefit from low network latency, high network throughput, or both.

If working and prev accessible instance stops working then first check if the instance is terminated then check for aws system status. If system status is impaired then stop and start your instance again to run it on healthy system.

route 53 = 
highly available (global scope) 
	how dns is setup = create public hosted zone of same as domain name. assign a set of 4 name servers to hosted zone. they can point to web server(ec2 instance) or s3 bucket. add this nameservers to domain. you can use alias record to route traffic to s3 bucket or cloudfront distribution (cdn) or other aws resources.
	We can use private dns to resolve dns queries withing amazon vpc. so you can use custom domain names for your internal AWS resources without exposing DNS data to the public Internet.
	
Routing policies for Route 53
	simple = route traffic to single resource. Here you cannot specify multiple ip addresses.
	failover = uses active-passive config. when active instance fails starts routing traffice to passive instance.
	geolocation = route traffice based on end users location. useful for content localization or restrict access by regions.
	geoproximity = route traffice based on location of your resources.
	latency = route traffice based on least latency. useful when you have resources in multiple regions.
	multivalue answer = sends upto 8 healthy records selected at random.
	weighted = route traffic to multiple resources based on proportions that you specify.
	
private hosted zone = to use private hosted zone below properties should be enabled in vpc. enableDnsHostnames, enableDnsSupport . In private hosted zone associate health check can only check weighted and failover records.

traffic policy included below information about routing configuration :
	the routing policy that you want to use.
	resources that you want to traffic to route to such as ec2 instances and domain name of elb
	
dns resolver is regional.

Route 53 health check = this supports three types of health checks.
	1. Health checks that monitor an endpoint.(ip address or domanin name)
	2. calculated health checks = Health checks that monitor other health checks
	3. cloudwatch alarm = Health checks that monitor CloudWatch alarms. 
Egress only internet gateway = only allows outbound(didn't allow to initiate from internet) communitcation over ipv6(ipv4 not supported) to internet. it is stateful and you cannot use security group with it but you can use network acl. Ipv6 addresses are globally unique hence they are public.

Oracle db with RAC config is not supported by aws RDS so you have to use ec2 instance to host oracle db.

NAT gateway = you need public subnet, EIP address to create nat gateway. gateway is created in specific AZ and implemented redundancy in same AZ. NAT gateway supports TCP, UDP and ICMP protocols

bastion host = A bastion host is a special-purpose computer on a network specifically designed and configured to withstand attacks.