
Custom Resource Definition (CRD) = You need to create a CRD as well as custom controller for CRD to actually deploy it. 
Operator framework = Operator consist of both CRD and CRD controller together. There are additional feature when using Operator framework.

Kubernetes deployment strategies = first two are in-built strategies. Below that are not deployment strategies but can be implemented in different ways.
1. Recreate = destroys all the pods at the same time, application is inaccessible in between.
2. RollingUpdate (default)
3. Blue Green = Blue (old version), Green (New Version), After new version passes initial tests, all the traffic is switched at the same time. Here we create a new deployment and change service selector to point to new version.
4. Canary =  deploy new version and route small % of traffic to it. If successful then we use rolling update strategies to increase % of traffic routed to new version to 100%. Here create new deployment with least number of pod to start with small % of traffic.

Give service account access to s3 bucket
1. create service account
2. create a resource based policy for s3 bucket.
3. get account id and oidc providers urls.
4. create trust relationship having principal as federated oidc provider.
5. create role using above trust relationship and resource based s3 bucket policy.
6. Annotate service account with iam role arn.

Give someone access to eks cluster.
In eks, access by IAM principals (users, roles) to aws eks is enabled by aws iam authenticator for kubernetes which runs on eks control plane. Authenticator gets it's config info from aws-auth configmap. creator of eks cluster gets "system:masters" permission. 

1. find out correct rolebindings/clusterrolebindings for required authorisation level permissions.
2. add additional kubernetes rolebindings/clusterrolebindings (e.g. system:masters, system:authenticated) to groups inside aws-auth configmap by editing kubectl edit -n kube-system configmap/aws-auth

There will be default configmap already present. If not you cand download aws provided configmap and edit it and then apply it. 
