Multiprocessing in python

what is multiprocessing ?
creation of multiple process so that programs can run concurrently and use all cpu cores.
mp (multiprocessing) library gives each process its own python interpreter and a GIL. As processes don't share memory they can't modify same memory concurrently.

there are two ways to do cpu bound multiprocessing in python 
1. multiprocessing(mp) library
2. concurrent.futures
Both are same in terms of performance but multiprocessing has rich features set. Concurrent.futures provides simple interface. But python documentation states that multiprocessing will be removed in future. So use concurrent.futures for cpu bound processing if possible.

In multiprocessing any new process will do two things
	runs independantly.
	have their own memory space.
	
As we know for new process there will be seperate new interpreter, new GIL and different memory locations, we will not be able to return anything using return statement inside target function as well as using global variables. 

how many processes we should run concurrently ?
we should run # physical cores - 1 processes simaltaneously. for detailed explaination see link
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40217873/multiprocessing-use-only-the-physical-cores

multiprocessing library provides different ways for sharing data between different processes
1. Shared Memory = mp module provides Array and Value object to share data between processes. 
check below link for examples
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/multiprocessing-python-set-2/  

2. server process = whenever a python program starts, a server process is also started. from there on whenever new process is required, the parent process connects to the server and request it to fork a new process. A server process can hold python objects and allow other processes to manipulate them using proxies.  mp module provides manager class which controls server process. Hence manager provides way to create data which can be shared between different processes.

server managers are better way as they can support list, dictionary, queues, value, array etc. Also single manager can be shared by processes on different computers over network. They are however slower than using shared memory.

mp supports two types of communication channels for inter process communication(IPC) ie. communication between different processes.
1. Queue = any python object can be passed through queue. mp.Queue is near clone of queue.Queue. It has two methods get and put. put is to add element in queue and get is to remove and return element from queue. Queues does proper synchronization between process. hence queues are process and thread safe.
2. Pipe = pipe has two endpoints so it is preferred way over queue when two way communication is needed. mp pipe function provides two connection objects (which are two endpoints). Each connection object has send and recv method.

what is process synchronization ?
mechanism which ensures two or more concurrent processes do not simaltaneously execute some particular program segment known as critical section.

critical section refers to part of program where shared resources is accessed.

Lock class = mp module provides Lock class to deal with race condition. Lock is implemented using Semaphore object provided by operating system.

Semaphore = synchronization object that controls access to multiple process to common resource. Its simply a value in OS storage that each process can check and change. Semaphore can be binary(0 or 1) or can have additional values.

Pool = distributes task among cores/processes automatically.

Python multiprocessing tips
1. Don't share resource instead pass messages. As using locks we lock the shared resource and block other processes from running. Use Queue to pass messages.

2. Always clean up after yourself. Subprocesses can hang or fail to shutdown cleanly. You should send the END message as we are using queue and messages. If subprocess didn't listen to queue then we can also use mp.Event object which is initialized to false and can be set to True. Other process can check it with is-set method and wait of it to change. Best practice is to have only one “shutdown-requested” Event object in an application which is passed to all subprocesses. Subprocesses should then loop using that Event as their boolean check - so that if the shutdown-requested Event is set to True, the loop terminated.
Main process has to also do cleanup. Main process should ensure that every other process gets termination signal.check if other processes are actually terminated. empty the queues. 

3. Always handle TERM and INT signal. Server processes gets TERM signal to inform them time to stop. INT is used in testing to stop the program. INT should also generate stack trace. 

4. Don't wait forever to do shutdown. configure timeout.

5. Report exceptions, and have time based shared logging system. 