Logistic Regression(lr) = 

Assumptions = 
(a) binary logistic regression requires the dependent variable to be binary and
(b) ordinal logistic regression requires the dependent variable to be ordinal.
There needs to be a linear relationship between any continuous independent variables and the logit transformation of the dependent variable.
little or no multi-collinearity among the independent variables.

logit function logit(p) =  log(p/(1-p))

Equation
sigmoid function f(x) = 1/1+e^-z

Imbalanced data
not sure about the answer.  do some experiments.
Imbalanced data needs to be handled.
Here we tries to find weights first like in linear regression and then apply sigmoid function on top of this. To find the weights we need to standardize our solution.

Outliers
lr is prone to outliers.outliers needs to be handled.

feature standardization is mandatory in logistic regression.
we can get feature importance using weights. higher is the weights then more is the feature importance.
model can be interpreted using its weights assigned with feature.

monotonic function  = if x increases then f(x) also increases.

Advantages :
low space and time complexity can be used in low latency applications.
It is easy to interprete

Disadvantages :
can't solve non-linear problem as decision surface is linear.
Needs large sample data to achieve stable results.

ways to convert non linear datapoints to linear datapoints.(feature engineering).
1) polynomial function( f1,f1 square,f1 cube)
2) trignometric function (sin cos tan)
3) boolean functions ( and or xor)
4) log or exponential functions.

training complexity
	time complexity = nd
run time complexity 
	time complexity = d
	space complexity = d
	
very good for low latency applications.	

hyperparameters 
no hyperparameters.


why-isnt-logistic-regression-called-logistic-classification ?
Logistic regression is emphatically not a classification algorithm on its own. It is only a classification algorithm in combination with a decision rule that makes dichotomous the predicted probabilities of the outcome. Logistic regression is a regression model because it estimates the probability of class membership as a (transformation of a) multilinear function of the features.

Is it possible to apply a logistic regression algorithm on a 3-class Classification problem?
True



 