EKS

what is meaning of elastic in aws ?
Ability to acquire or releaase resources as needed. ie. auto scaling.
Some aws services such as S3, SNS, SQS do this as a part of service. Some requires vertical scaling like RDS, while others like ec2, ecs, fargate are integrated with AWS auto scaling.

eks cluster plane is provisioned across multiple Availability Zones.

EKS
current version : 1.27
cluster role : Full permisions on EC2, Auto Scaling Group, Load balancer
Additional Secrets encryption available for kubernets secrets stored in etcd over the above default encryption applied to ebs volume where etcd data resides. It is part of defence in depth security principal.
Select VPC and subnets
cluster endpoint could be public or private or both.
logging availabe for api server, auditing, authentication, controller manager and schedular.
AddOns : CoreDNS, Amazon VPC CNI, kube-proxy
VPC CNI = allows kubernetes pods to have a sampe IP address inside pod as they do on VPC network.

While updating control plane (cluster) it performs rolling update, so cluster never goes down.

cloudwatch logs
/aws/containerinsights/mcp-dev/application = All log files in /var/log/containers or pods. This captures all the application container logs writing to stdout or stderr.
/aws/containerinsights/mcp-dev/dataplane = kubelet service logs
/aws/containerinsights/mcp-dev/host
/aws/containerinsights/mcp-dev/performance  
/aws/eks/mcp-dev/cluster = contol plane logs

aws load balancer controller will be installed as deployment.
daemonsets = cloudwatch agent, csi-secrets-store, fluent-bit
namespaces = amazon cloudwatch

why do you use eks managed nodes?
There are 3 options to have nodes in eks.
1. self managed node group = You have to manually provision and attach nodes to eks cluster.
2. eks managed node group = Automates the provisioning and lifecycle management of nodes. There are no additional charges for managed node groups you only pay for aws resources you use.
3. fargate = fargate provides on-demand, right sized compute for containers. Fargate managed provisioning, configuring and scaling. For same amount of compute and storage fargate will cost much more when application is scaled than eks managed node group.s

Upgrading eks managed nodes steps = It asks for update strategy out of Rolling or forced. when you initiate node upgrade following things happen.
1. eks randomly chooses nodes that needs to be upgraded upto maxUnavailable value.
2. It drains pods from that node. Even after 15 mins pods are not evicted and no force flag set then upgrade fails with PodEviction error.
3. eks cordons node after every pod evicted and waits for 60 seconds. for making service controller aware and remove node from list of active node.
4. sends termination request to auto scaling group. and ASG launches new node with upgraded config in same AZ.
5. repeats the process until all nodes are upgraded.

ASG = when using ASG it is strongly recommended to use load balancer as ip addresses of ASG instances will changes due to autoscaling, termination etc. If you don't use load balancer then you need to update addresses in route 53 dns service with some complex setup.
ASG supports target tracking scaling policy which has avg cpu utilisation, avg network in, avg network out and alb requests per taraget metrics for tracking. ASG also supports sns notifications for launch, terminate, faild to launcha and failed to terminate events.

how to use service account to access aws s3 bucket?

how to use network load balancer in ingress?
what is ingress controller called?
 
To use storage you need to install EBS CSI driver. It can be Amazon managed or Self managed. You will also need to provide IAM role with AmazonEBSCSIDriverPolicy policy.
default storage class on kubernetes - 
